The fullstack project I completed in the course "Software development for algorithmic problems" was divided into 3 parts.
While the high dimensionality did not allow for brute force NN, we had to implement an approximate NN algorithm using the LSH and Hypercube techniques for similarity search and (geometric) range queries. The first is based on multiple hash tables that save similar points in the appropriate bucket while the latter is based on random projection theory. Both were implemented for euclidean and cosine spaces. One of the tasks was to adjust parameter tuning and to compare the results in time and space complexity.

In the 2nd part of the project, the goal was to cluster vectors in high dimensions. For this, we had to implement different variations of clustering algorithms. Such variations concerned the initialization (e.g k-means++), assignment (using typical (Lloyd's) assignment or approximate assignment based on range queries implemented on top of the LSH/Hypercube structure of the first phase) and update (Partitioning Around Centroids or Medoids). In addition, Silhouette metric had to be created to evaluate the clustering algorithms.

In the 3rd and final part, we received a dataset of tokenized tweets referring to cryptocurrencies and a sentiment analysis score lexicon dataset. Given these, our task was to do a sentiment analysis on each user’s tweets and using the collaborative filtering method, in order to build a cryptocurrency recommendation system, which the user has not ever tweeted and would possibly like to invest in. In order to achieve this, we utilized the LSH-range search or the clustering that was implemented in the previous parts of the project. To test the performance, a 10-fold cross validation was implemented using the MAE (Mean absolute error) measure.

